# James the Happy Hobo

gruffy, wore jeans that seemed a size too big, he looked to be in the mid-40s, maybe older, but his beard and scruff hid true age of his face. he looked contemplative, aggressive in a somber way, but sane, wits about, as he took a puff of a cigarette sitting on a tattered black jacket with a small paper bag concealing a half-eaten banana and some small belongings when I approached him. 

“Hi, do you want to get lunch with me?”

met outside the subway store by market and front st, ate at miss tomato sandwich shop, I ordered a Spicy Mama, he ordered cookies ‘n cream ice cream in a cup. it came out to be $9. 

I asked him how he was, he stopped to pull up his pants, as his belt was stolen along with his bag the other day at embarcadero. he set it down and someone just took it. 
 
His name was James Rodgers. He’s 36, and he was originally from Arkansas. People on the streets gave him the nickname “Crazy” - he considers himself a deeply spiritual person. He has 2 brothers, both with wives and kids now. His parents were separated for as long as he knew; he never had a father figure. He still keeps in touch with his family: he has a wife back in Arkansas, two kids aged 8 and 11. He’s been to prison 4 times in his life, the longest stint being 2 years and 8 months, mostly for theft. He was a truck driver. His wife is supportive of his homeless stint in San Francisco. 

His mother bought him a ticket to SF after his parole, and he had always wanted to hobo in San Francisco, he digs the lifestyle here. 

Is there anything you learned from being homeless that you’d like to share with others? - Some days are good, some days are bad, you suck it up, you make yourself happy, and you deal with people’s shit and their ways. Some days people are good for you and you make sure to appreciate those days; on days when people aren’t so nice you shrug it off and keep going. You need to adapt. 

Biggest struggle: it sucks that sometimes you have to steal to survive on the streets, jumping trains, getting caught 

Plans after SF? Maybe go back to Arkansas, be a truck driver again, need to pay for his kids’ education. 

What do you do to survive? He comes around Financial District on weekdays, at night he goes to 7/11 or Taco Bell since they’re open 24/7 and sleep around there. different places every night. 

What are your thoughts on technology? He likes tech, but he’s rather behind on the latest tech. His “technology stack” deals mostly in bikes and motorcycles, back when he used to steal them. But he doesn’t use computers. He lost his cellphone but he occasionally uses it to call up his friends. A lot of homeless people in SF, so he has lots of friends. They meet up and smoke and talk. Asked how he stays in contact with them, mostly just by chance on the streets and only some use phones. “I just see them around.”


Asked are you happy, he said yes. He’s very happy, he enjoys hoboing. Asked does he see homelessness as a problem? No, he doesn’t, there are homeless shelters. He uses them. He lives the way he does because he’s happy doing it. 

I asked him if he wanted the uneaten half of my sandwich. He turned it down. “I’m full, but thanks,” he declined. I wished him luck, we shook hands and departed as the same people when we first met: the boy who had never been homeless for a single night in his life and the hobo who enjoyed hoboing. But there was a mutual understanding, tremendous learning on my part that practically flipped my worldview. He was shown a kindness, a kindness in the form that I would have been glad to given anyone, and in turn told his story to a stranger, a stranger for all he knew did not have his interests at heart. But he trusted and I listened and it was one of the most beautiful human exchanges I’ve ever experienced.

Halfway through my epitome, as I merged into the crowd of suits who at that moment seemed all too absorbed in the act of crossing an intersection, I realized I forgot to ask him for a picture. I wanted to learn about the homeless, to put a face on them so we can start humanizing homelessness as a problem. My heart sunk. In a mad dash of panic, I turned around with a surprising vigor, with more conviction I’ve come to expect from myself, and ran back to find James. He wasn’t there. I checked Market street, I tried all the intersections in the maze that was the Financial District. I finally gave up. I was disheartened. Maybe it wasn’t meant to be. Maybe it wasn’t for the picture. Maybe I wanted to chase him down because I wanted to know more about how he could find happiness in being homeless. In many ways my chase was emblematic of my status quo: an endless, ambiguous pursuit for happiness, for some greater meaning in my life. I wanted to know how a homeless person could achieve something most work for their entire lifetime to obtain. What was his secret? 

I made my way back to the Subway shop I had met James. Things felt different now, and I felt a chill as I approached the spot where he sat smoking his cigarette. I took out my camera and framed the shot. The sign for the $4 Subway meal combo was in plain sight. It was no wonder he hate eaten before. It was a good spot to hobo. 

His name was James Rodgers, and he was a happy hobo. 
